# Computational-Musicology-Portfolio-Richard-Weichert
This portfolio comprises of statistical investigations into the genre of **Swancore**, a musical hybrid influenced by post-hardcore, mathcore, funk & RnB and, as of late, mainstream pop. I would like to address questions pertaining to how a push towards a hybridised sound **affects the popularity and demographic diversity of music**, and similarily whether a push towards a "poppier" sound can be both to the **benefit and detriment to the music's reception**. Having done extensive reading, listening and writing on topics ranging from musicology and ethnomusicology to acoustic ecology, and being particularily invested in the Swancore scene, I would like, with this investigation, to combine my interests on a new, statistical frontier.

Artists of interest will include bands **Dance Gavin Dance**, **Royal Coda**, **A Lot Like Birds** and **Stolas**. Knowing the longevity and histories of both Dance Gavin Dance (DGD) and Royal Coda (RC), I expect a far greater demographic diversity and shared audiences with more mainstream artists. This would coincide with their persistance in recent years of departing from their post-hardcore roots and experimenting with a more mainstream sound. On the other hand, knowing the devoted communities still surrounding the now-seperated bands A Lot Like Birds (ALLB) and Stolas, I expect that, despite their less accessible sound, their audience will also be quite geographically widespread (though in the case of all these bands, an intense concentration will be in the regions where they formed, the central and southwestern USA).

In working with some of the larger names and pioneers of this Swancore, this corpus should serve as a relatively solid overview, but consequently will mean that smaller bands and their more recent contributions to the genre will be overlooked. Similarily, because only larger bands within the genre are going to be investigated, there is a portion of listening that will take place offline, whether through frequent live concerts, vynil CD and Cassette, and live radio. Similarily, Spotify is not the only music streaming platform (even if it is the largest), and the larger a band becomes, the larger quantity (though not necessarily ratio, so this can be worked around) of listeners will be listening through other platforms.

Tracks of interest (particularily when comparing a presence/lack of pop, funk and RnB influences and their impact on listening statistics) will be *Feels Bad Man* and *Son of Robot* (DGD), *Connector* and *Vanity's Fair* (ALLB), *Becoming the Memory* and *Even If* (RC) and *Bellweather* and *Time & the Sun* (Stolas).
This being said, click, scroll, read and listen on, and enjoy!

Playlist Link: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/1pr1bLeDhoRxncuck8qy7B?si=1c6f2c05b2e143f4

Update 20-02-2023:
The first plot in this repository (DGDplot1) shows the relation between the danceability of DGD's discography and the individual songs' date of release. There are quite a few points of interst to be taken from this graph, namely what appears to be a trend of becoming more danceable over time (a sign of pushing towards conventional "poppiness", or at the very least engaging more in their hybridised funk/hardcore sound). This process runs parallel to a growing popularity of DGD's work over time (though whether that is necessarily due to their danceabiliyt to due to their longevity is up to debate)

Points of concern/what needs to be fixed: I'm looking for a way to get the jitter function to work as to make my sets of vertically aligned points easier to read, but am finding difficulty with it. On a related note, I'd like to make the x-axis more evenly spread out, relying not on the exact date of release but on an actual time scale by year (this might solve my issue with jittering). Organising the albums by release instead of alphabetically might also be nice (or at least labelling the albums based on whcih year they released)

For the next set of plots, I would like to use the same approach to other swancore bands, adding in a line to measure the mean danceability over time. I'd like to make the popularity of a piece more evident by increasing the scale factor for point size. I'd also like to make the difference between points more distinct by setting their fill alpha to a different concentration than their colour alpha.
